---
layout: post
title: "Blog 2"
date: 2020-09-18 18:58:21 -0700
---
This week I worked on Lab 1 for my senior design class. The purpose of the lab was to familarize ourselves with common Docker commands, use apt-get package manager, and becoming more comfortable moving arond wit the command line. First we created a new container called Lab 1 running ubuntu 18.04. We must then update the package repository using `apt-get update && apt-get upgrade`. Once our package lists are updated we must install our text editor, git, curl, and zip. The text editor I used for this exercise of the lab was vim. Next we must install our webserver. We are using Apache. The job of the webserver is to accept the requests from clients and then send the repsonse to that request. Something I am interesting in learning in the upcmoning weeks in regards to Apache are .htaccess, URL rewriting, and load balancing. Once installing apache with `apt-get install apache2` we must check in our local browser if it is installed successfully by entering `localhost:8080` in the url.

Next we installed MySQL which is an Oracle backend open source relational database management system based on Structured Query Language(SQL). We install the mysql-client with `apt-get install -y mysql-client`. You can verify the installation with `dpkg --get-selections | grep mysql`. Next we must install PHP and some PHP dependencies. We must edit certain apache config files in the directory. We must create simple PHP script to test that our system is configured for PHP. Our LAMP stack should be working so we clone a git repo. Once cloned we must change the owner and group of the files in the affinity directory created. Finally we must install the composer package using curl. And we use `composer install` inside the affinity directory to succesfully setup the LAMP stack. If you receive an error message during the `composer install` you must run `apt install php-xml` first to make sure it is properly installed. This completed Lab 1. It was a simple lab where we used ubuntu in order to display our web pages, and we cloned a git repository in order to display the final webpage.
