---
layout: post
title: "Blog 7"
date: 2020-10-23 18:58:22 -0700
---
This week I learned about how to start creating and designing user interfaces. A mental model is a conceptualization in the mind of a human of how something works. For example everyone has a conceptualization that if you were to press the home button on an iPhone it would take you to the home screen. A conceptual design would connect the user’s mental model with the designer’s mental model. In order to do this you must begin designing with the conceptual design. One must focus on how the system will present itself to users and if users will be able to understand how to use it. A company that does this very well is Apple with their user interfaces and apps. There are essentially three levels of a pyramid that need conceptual design; Ecology, Interaction, Emotional. Ecology helps the user understand how a system works with its environment. An example of this is how apple products such as iPhones and iPads work together with iTunes. Interaction describes how a user operates a system. For example the desktop metaphor. Emotional describes the intended emotional impact of the system. For example, a luxury sports car gives the emotional impact of getting a reaction off the car. 

Pervasive Information Architecture is in ecological UX design perspective. Ecology is the set of surrounding parts of the world. The design for the ecology of a system is always dependent on a pervasive IA. It is how users see, manipulate, maintain, and share their information objects cross the ecology. For example the ecology of watching a video on youtube involves understanding the ecology. Without understanding the ecology of Youtube one cannot watch a video. They will need to understand the ecology to browse, search, and find the video they want to watch. Pervasive IA requires place-making, consistency, resilience, reduction, and correlation. Storyboards are a sequence of visual frames that illustrate the interplay between user and the system. 

Designing the interaction is all about supporting user tasks. One must keep in mind that they are designing where the user looks at displays and manipulates the controls using their sensory, cognitive, and physical actions. Storyboards in interaction design freeze-frame representations, graphical clips, hand-sketched pictures with small annotations, and stories how people work with system. One must make sure to include all work practice that is part of a task in the story board. It is important to capture every frame of the interaction in your story board to fully understand the concept of what is happening. One can use wireframes to represent design objects. Wireframes are the bread and butter tool of UX designers. It is made of lines, outlines, and boxes to represent design objects. Wireframes don’t carry much context as well. They can be used to discuss design alternatives, to receives feedback, to get a better eye on the architect of your product or website.
