---
layout: post
title: "Blog 10"
date: 2020-11-13 14:58:22 -0700
---
  I spent a majority of this week studying for my Web Engineering class as I have had three projects done within this month and am expecting an exam soon. I wanted to brush on basic elements such as `<nav>` `<section>` `<aside>` `<article>` `<section>.`Most importantly I reviewed these in order to refresh my memory of all the possible elements I can have. For example it better help me structure my html documents knowing all the available elements I have. I also reviewed CSS which is Cascading Style Sheets. CSS has the `<style>` tag which is an HTML tag that tells the browser I want to write some styles. Those styles are written within the `<style> </style>` tags and is called CSS. With CSS we are learning presentational syntax. CSS is very similar to a majority of the languages I have learned up to date. It starts with the `<style>` tag and then you select a selector to decide what you will be styling. For example, `body{ }`. Within the body would be the properties used to style the body element from the HTML page. Finally you just want to end with ending tag `</style>`. Also in HTML inside a tag you can add a style attribute, for example `<h2 style="color:red; font-weight: normal;">. This is referred to as inline styling. 
  The best way to style specific things is to apply a class to a tag in your HTML file and then use `.classname{}` to edit the tag. If you use a specific class then the styling will not apply globally but only to the classes with the class name. Class names can apply to a whole file but you can also be really specific if you want. For example if you want to edit a header with a class assgined to alert. You would then use `h2.alert{ }.' This will make it so the styling properties only apply to H2's with the alert class. The syntax for setting a font is `font-family: SYSTEMfont, "Fallback Font", Fallback Family;` With this you set the original font with the system font and then the fall back font is used for when the browser does not support the system font. Finally the fallback family is the font family that will be used if no other fonts worked. To adjust font size we use `font-size: size;`. A relative font size is 2em which says whatever your default fontsize will be, give me two times that. Other styling properties include font-weight and font-style, margin, padding, background-color, border-bottom, border-top, etc. I feel like overall this was a very good review so I can brush up on my HTML and CSS styling skills. I plan to expand on this and start reviewing javascript in order to master those skills down the line. 
