---
layout: post
title: "Blog 11"
date: 2020-20-12 17:58:22 -0700
---
This week I learned more about JQuery. Ive had past experience with JQuery but nothing serious. JQuery is one of the most widely used open source free Javascript libraries on the web. It makes it very simple to complete common tasks involved with making modern web applications. It works on all modern browsers. JQuery's syntax is known to be very compact and nice. Its code is a lot less verbose than your typical JavaScript. It uses CSS syntax to find and retrieve the page content as well. JQuery is also known to use the concept called statement chaning which is meant to reduce the amount of code you'll have to write. JQuery is also highly extensible, there is a wide variety of extensions and plug ins available online. 

For our first JQuery page we had to set up and event listener to trigger when the DOM of the page was loaded. For this I used JQuery to insert content into the webpage inside the event handler. This would indicate everything is working correctly. You have to work with the page content. For example, if you were to make a movie website like the one my group is working on in my web development class then we would use event handlers in order to process all the movie elements. You can use a selector aas well which would allow you to specify a simple expression that returns all the movies in the page. In order to select all the elements in a page one must pass the name of the tag to the JQuery function. Example of some selectors are `$("tagName")` `$("#identifier")` `$("tag.className")` `$(".className")` `$("*")`. Basically you use these to select content in the page that you can manipulate using other JQuery or JavaScript functions.

There are also basic filters. These filters are used in conjuction with selectors in order to further refine the result that comes back from the expression. The syntax of the filter is specified by using a colon before the name of the filter. Examples of these filters are `:first, :last` `:even, :odd` `:gt(),:lt(), :eq()` `:animated` `:focus` `:not(expr)` Once you understand how to use selectors and filters you learn the basic foundation for using JQuery.
