---
layout: post
title: "Blog "
date: 2020-11-06 14:58:22 -0700
---

This week I covered designing for emotional impact is designing for satisfaction, delight, aesthetics, joy, and meaningfulness. When a design has good emotional impact it can be endearing and timeless. Emotional impact can often be neglected when it comes to the UX design. In the market it can make a big difference. Conceptual design for emotional impacts depends on branding, visual/graphic design, sound, motion, use of color and theme design. Mood boards are a great way to demonstrate this.

Prototypes realize design alternatives and give an opportunity to envision promising design candidates. They tend to have tangible design representations that can be evaluated by users, create representations of design to required fidelity. It also gives visibility to stakeholders, a design for users to try out, or just first impressions on a future product. There are three perspectives: ecological, interaction, and emotional. It is important to choose the right perspective for prototypes. It is also important to choose the right kind of prototype with their being breadth, depth, level of fidelity, and amount of interactivity. The horizontal prototype had breadth-wise slices of features, more features, and less detail per feature. It is often referred to as a good place to start. A vertical prototype has depth-wise slices of features, fewer features, and more detail per feature. The T prototype has most of the user interface realized at a shallow level (horizontal bar of “T”) and has a few parts done in depth (vertical stems of “T”). The local prototype is narrow in both directions, has a small area where horizontal and vertical slices can intersect, evaluates design alternatives to focus on localized interaction. A good example of a Local Prototype is an appearance of an icon, a wording of message, or behavior of individual function. A great example of a prototype is when a company like Apple or Samsung want to make a new phone design, so they make multiple prototypes in order to see what design is their best option. There is also fidelity, interactivity, fully programmed, and wizard of oz prototypes.

Instead of using user testing we tend to use UX design evaluation to verify and refine designs with respect to user experience they afford. The user involved would be known as the participant. There is no clear difference between Method and Technique. A method is a higher-level way of doing UX evaluation for example a lab-based empirical evaluation with users. Technique is a way to do a more specific step within a method. For example, critical identification, a way to collect data about UX problems within that method. There are two types of UX evaluation, objective and subjective data. Objective data is when data is observed by participants or the evaluator. Subjective is data based on opinion or judgement by either evaluator or participant. There are different combinations of type of empirical UX data. There is quantitative objective which measures user performance and quantitative subjective is a measure of opinions. Qualitative objective is a description of a usability or UX problem observed. Qualitative subjective is a description of a usability or UX problem experienced. Formative evaluation helps you form design and summative evaluation helps you sum up design.
