---
layout: post
title: "Blog 12"
date: 2020-12-04 18:58:22 -0700
---
This week I am reviewing Chapter to get ready for Finals and Final projects.

`Chapter 23`

This chapter talks about the Empirical UX Evaluation: Preparation. Evaluation can be performed at any scope. Typically large scopes are best for early funnels and small scopes are best for late funnels. You can perform UX evaluation at any level of rigor. For the early stages when design is constantly changing, high rigor would be wasted. In a fast moving environment, it is not recommended to use high rigor at all. High Rigor is recommended for large enterprises as it is often demanded. In order to make an evaluation plan you need goals and purpose of evaluation, descriptions of intended user population, general evaluation methods and activities, an estimated schedule, and responsible personnel. For empirical evaluation team roles there are four key roles. The first is the Facilitator who is the Team leader, the person with the people skills, responsible for planning and execution, and keeps the evaluation on track. The Prototype Executor is for low fidelity prototypes. They tend to make prototype behave as if it were running on a computer, needs thorough knowledge of design, needs a steady sense of logic, and needs to have a complete poker face. There are also Quantitative data collectors. They usually need stopwatches, counters, and clipboards and must know what measures to watch for. They require a lot of focus. The final role is Qualitative data collectors. This role is for anyone without another job already and they require much vigilance in order to be on the lookout for critical incidents and UX problems. In order to prepare an effective range of tasks one must benchmark tasks to generate quantitative measures such as time on task, error counts and other goals and metrics. For unmeasured tasks you must focus on qualitative data. It is best to make your task descriptions clear, specific, and concise. To select and recruit participants you must establish need and budget for recruiting participants upfront, find representative users outside the team and your organization, determine the right number of participants, and create incentives and remuneration for their services. To finally begin pilot testing you must test the prototype thoroughly yourself, fix the mistakes, and do not waste a participant with a prototype that does not work.

`Chapter 24`

This chapter introduces Data collection methods and techniques. You must have preliminaries with your participants and introduce self and lab, administer upfront paperwork like general instructions and informed consent forms. During session protocols you must carry a positive attitude about finding problems because finding problems only helps your prototype to fix it. It is also ideal to create a partnership with the participant to work together to make the best design possible. It is best to listen and not talk so much and to encourage your participants. When evaluation low fidelity prototypes, you must know your roles in the prototype evaluation. You must try your best to not coach the participants and to not anticipate your user actions. A critical incident is an event observed within a task performance. This is a significant indicator of a UX problem. A critical incident identification is arguably the single most important source of qualitative data in user based formative evaluation. In order to record critical incident data you must abstract it down to the basics. The think aloud data collection technique is when user participants express verbally their thoughts during the interaction experience. It is a very effective qualitative data collection technique. It can be used in both rigorous and rapid methods. It is also needed when a user hesitates or when your participants do not verbalize. Questionnaires are a self-reporting data collection technique. It is a primary instrument for collecting quantitative subjective data. They are a great choice due to it being inexpensive and easy to administer. QUIS is the questionnaire for user interface satisfaction. It is one of the earliest and most used methods because it is organized around the general categories: Screen, terminology, learning, system capabilities. Practitioners tend to supplement QUIS with their own questions. SUS is the system usability scale. SUS just has 10 questions and has alternates positive and negative questions. SUS is robust, extensively used, widely adapted, in public domain, and technology independent. Quasi empirical methods are defined by freedom given to practitioners to innovate, to be flexible about goals and approaches, to make impromptu changes of pace, direction focus, and jump on issues as they arise. RITE is an example of quasi empirical method. It stands for Rapid Interactive testing and Evaluation. It is a kind of abridged version of user-based testing. In order to prepare the RITE method you must select UX practitioner to be facilitator, identify characteristics needed in participants. Decide tasks to have participants reform, construct test script based on those tasks and to decide how to collect qualitative user behavior data.  

`Chapter 25`

Rapid evaluation techniques are more common in field than lab-based evaluations. They tend to be less formal and less rigorous as it has less protocol and fewer rules. There is also much more variability in process and this flexibility means the need for more spontaneous ingenuity. In order to design a walkthrough you must have an early demo for initial reaction and quick feedback, easy and quick evaluation method, an audience, and the early stages of the project where you have the conceptual design, scenarios and story boards and sketches. For UX inspection you cannot inspect the user experience but instead inspect the design for user experience issues. It is seen as an analytical evaluation method and is the primary evaluation technique in the field today. One of these is called Heuristic evaluation (HE). HE drives inspection with small number heuristics. The system should speak the users’ languages with words, phrases, and concepts familiar to the user rather than system-oriented terms. Follow real-world conventions, making information appear in a natural and logical order.
