---
layout: post
title: "Blog 1"
date: 2020-09-11 18:58:22 -0700
---
This was a fairly difficult week for me to keep a track of due to the three day labor day weekend. It really made the week and material go by quick. In my web engineering class we had 3 labs due this week which was very overwhelming because the professor was trying to see who can be added to the class by completing these assignments so I needed to complete those. 

I learned a lot from the labs done this week. We learned different types of HTML tags and basic structuring of an HTML document. Tags are a great way to format content to your likings with HTML. In order to format one must wrap what they want formatted into a tag. Using sectioning elements and semantic elements, we were able to structure the content to our likings on the HTML page. We also learned how these tags and elements can affect the whole outline of the page. In one of the problems for the assignments we had to observe and analyze the outline of a webpage and implement that outline on all the webpages for the website. I saw this was a great exercise to gain knowledge of outlines along with being consistent with them. 

I also learned tags in regards to links. For example, the anchor tag in HTML make the content into a clickable link. Each Anchor tag involves an href attribute which contains the destination that you want the link to go. You can choose common attributes to dictate what happens when you click this clickable link. For example 'target="_blank"' will open the clickable link in a new page. These clickable links can be made for a lot of things. They can link to other pages within your website, linking to external sites, linking to downloadable resources, page regions within your documents web pages using fragment identifiers. 

The last thing I learned for this week was the formatting for creating lists in HTML. There are three types of lists; Unorderered, ordered, and description lists. Unordered lists are normal lists with no particular order or numbering. The ordered lists are very similar to unordered list in syntax but the list is ordered in numbers. Description lists are great for terms with descriptions. 

