---
layout: post
title: "Blog 6"
date: 2020-10-16 14:58:22 -0700
---
  This week the main thing I spent learning and doing was this three part homework assignment for my web engineering class. For the assignment we had to use HTML and CSS in order to create a standard resume website. At first it was a bit overwhelming at where to begin with the assignment. But once I got started and just followed the guidelines the professor wanted, the website pretty much started shaping itself up. First I followed the layout of the index.html file given by the professor. I had to fill in the whole HTML code with my information. It is a resume assignment so I filled it out with my work history, school history, and a brief summary about myself and my personal goals. I next needed to establish by style sheet and link it to my resume. This is done at the header of each page. Then I had to chose a color pallete for my website. The professor adviced us to just find a color palette we like from google so I was able to find a color palette generator for my website. I decided to go with a blue tint pastel palett. Next I began to set classes and sections apart for my html file. I then had to use Google Fonts to pick two web-safe fonts for my website. Then I adjusted the font even more by adjusting their weight for each section. 

  Then I learned how to set up a content wrapper for my website so it looks presentable. Then I had to practice with padding and spacing the content wrapper on my website. Then the professor introduced us to the box model. This goes on the top of the stylesheet and is applied to every single elment on the page. We then added columns to our page for styling purposes. Then our page needed a navigation menu. Then finally we add a background image to one of the sections to practice our alpha transparency and we add foot icons to our footer to make it more presentable. This concluded the requirements for the resume website we created. Overall, this assignment really helped me a lot and helped me brush up on my skills since project 1. 
