---
layout: post
title: "Blog 0"
date: 2020-09-04 14:58:22 -0700
---

This week I got introduced to HTML. From my prior knowledge, I knew that HTML was the language used to structure content on the web. Suprisingly I have never had hands on experience with HTML. I think the only time I have ever really tried to do anything with HTML was when I was a teenager trying to edit my MySpace page with my friends. Apart from that this week I had my first real HTML assignment for my Web Engineering class. At first it was very overwhelming seeing all the code and only understanding minimal things from prior coding knowledge. 

The first thing I knew I had to learn was the syntax of HTML as that would make reading and learning the language relatively simple. In HTML there are a lot of tags which help identifying what the content within those tags are. An example of an opening and closing paragraph tag would be `<p> </p>`. Every tag consists of the same syntax a left angle bracket `<` followed by the identifier of the tag `p` (paragraph) and a closing right angle bracket `>`. A closing tag is similar but has a forward slash `/` in front of the identifier tag.

HTML always requires you to initiate the document with an `<html>` tag. Within the HTML tag is the `<head>` tag and the `<body>` tag. This was fairly simple and was easily understood. I also learned how to comment which is a left angle bracket, and exclamation point, and two hyphens `<!--`. This is extremely helpful for me as I can write notes for myself so I will not get overwhelmed by the clutter of code. 

In my CIT Design class I learned how to run and install Jekyll for Windows. I was actually surprised at how simple it was to install. For windows it uses the Ruby Installer which pretty much installs Jeckyll into your system for you. Once done I just needed to install the Jekyll bundler and I was set to start working on my website. At first I struggled to make a file due to me not knowing the correct format for Jeckyll files. But once I figured that out I was able to write my posts using the language "markdown." I have not looked much into the syntac for markdown, I honestly just used the Welcome to Jeckyll post as a reference to be able to compose my blog post together. I plan to research and learn more about Jeckyll in this upcoming week. 
