---
layout: post
title: "Blog 8"
date: 2020-10-30 14:58:22 -0700
---
This week we went over processes and usage research data in my Human Computer Interaction class. This chapter focuses mainly on a UX design studio. It is essentially a place where a team can work together, a place called home. The team can work together to analyze and discuss usage research as well as expressing their ideas with models and work on the walls. UX design studio has some requirements it must follow. For example, the space must be a dedicated share space that is constantly available and can display posters and artifacts continuously. It is essential that the UX design studio also has comfortable seating, worktables, whiteboards, and plenty of wall space. A prime example of this design studio is Virginia Tech’s The Kiva. It is a place with plenty of space for seating and worktables as well as having the interior walls be one large whiteboard. There are four specific roles in a UX team: Usage researcher, UX designer, Graphic/visual designer, and a UX analyst. In every UX team there is a product owner who is responsible for success of the product and following the business goals. They are also involved in writing the product concept statement, communicating client and stakeholders, and being heavily involved with research.

A project starts when there is a drive such as new marketing strategy, management edict, a product sponsor, system client, new ideas to improve a product or system. This is initiated with document such as a brief business statement or contract, proposal, or mandate. A prime example that the lesson shows is the current outdated system Middleburg University has with selling tickets for special events. They must improve this system because there is only one seller at specific times and at a specific location. The new project introduces a self-serve kiosk system around town or campus to improve sales and accessibility as well.

The Fundamental UX lifecycle has four activities: Understand needs, design solutions, prototype candidates, evaluate ux. Understand needs’ goal is to understand business domain, users, work practice, usage, the subject matter domain. Design Solutions tries to create designs as candidate solutions. Prototype candidates let you introduce design alternatives. Finally Evaluate UX lets you verify and refine interaction design.

This chapter continues with Usage research from the fundamental UX lifecycle. Usage research is to understand customer’s work practice, use that research to design/redesign and improve work practice. It is not about requirements nor of asking people what they want or need. It is about understanding customer’s work in context. First step in the Understand needs lifecycle activity is Data elicitation sub activity. Data elicitation is all about gathering raw usage research data and learning about existing work and work practice. Work is a set of activities people undertake to accomplish goals in a work domain. Work domain is the entire context of work and work practice in target enterprise. How a person does their work is known as their work practice. Next you must decide on data sources. You can use subject matter experts, focus groups, user surveys, or competitive analysis to decide. Next you must fix issues about your team such as roles, team members, number of visits etc.

We must line up the right client with users. There are four ways to reach this: Select and contract appropriate client management or users, build rapport and trust, analyze interviews, and identify appropriate people to meet, observes, and interview. To line up the right environment one must plan visits to multiple sites, set up the right conditions, and prepare a list of initial questions. When you receive a visit you must collect user work activity data. It is recommended that one arrives and meets clients, manager, administrator, or supervisor. Never forget your goal and observe users in their work context. Always take consciousness notes and sketch diagrams of the physical layout to understand the work context.  
