---
layout: post
title: "Blog 5"
date: 2021-04-02 18:58:22 -0700
---
# Introduction to PHP
*Note this post was made for quick referencing when writing in PHP*
## What is PHP?
PHP stands for PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor, it is a popular general-purpose scripting language that is mainly used for web development. It is also open source and can be embedded within HTML. PHP code is usually processed on a web server by a PHP interpreter. It is different than JavaScript because PHP is executed on the server and then sent to the client. Where as JavaScript is executed on a browser. Just like many languages PHP runs on all major platforms like Windows, Linux, Mac OS, Unix, etc.  PHP files are known to contan text, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP code. 
## Set Up
In order to set up PHP on your computer you will need three things:

 1. Install a webserver
 2. Install PHP
 3. Install a database
## PHP Syntax
In order to begin php code one must put the start and end processing instructions `<?php` and `?>`.
An example output of text for PHP would be:
`<?php  
echo  "Hello World!";  
?>`
Always remember to end each statement with a **;**

PHP carries a different syntax than most languages as keywords, classes, and function are all not case sensitive. For example the following all produce the same output: 
`<?php  `
`ECHO  "Hello World!<br>";  `
`echo  "Hello World!<br>"; ` 
`EcHo  "Hello World!<br>";  `
`?>`
On the other hand all variables are *case sensitive*.  When using variables, it must carry the same syntax throughout. 

## Comments
There are two ways to single line comment in PHP .
`<?php`
`// This is a single-line comment`
`# This is also a comment  `
`?>`

Multiple line comments carry a different syntax. 
`<?php  `
`/*  `
`This is a multiple-lines comment block `   
`*/  `
`?>`

## Variables
In PHP a variable starts with a `$` followed by the name of the variable.
`$even = "2, 4, 6, 8";`

Remember these rules for variables in PHP:

 - A variable name is case sensitive
 - A variable must start with a letter or the underscore character
 - A variable name cannot start with a number
 - A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores.

The `echo` statement can be used with or without parantheses as well as the `print` statement. 

## Data Types
PHP supports the following data types:

 - String
 - Integer
 - Float
 - Boolean
 - Array
 - Object
 - Null
 - Resource
